docs: 680/rp-incomingAmount (#703)
interledger/open-payments: docs/src/content/docs/guides/recurring-subscription-incoming-amount.mdx

Remember, Open Payments doesn't execute payments or touch money in any way. It's used to issue payment instructions before any money movement occurs. An example of a payment instruction is, "authorize recurring payments of exactly \$15 to the service provider once a month for 12 months".

## Endpoints

- <Badge text="GET" variant="note" /> <LinkOut href='https://openpayments.dev/apis/wallet-address-server/operations/get-wallet-address/'>Get Wallet Address</LinkOut>
- <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> <LinkOut href='https://openpayments.dev/apis/auth-server/operations/post-request/'>Grant Request</LinkOut>
- <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> <LinkOut href='https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-incoming-payment/'>Create Incoming Payment</LinkOut>
- <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> <LinkOut href='https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-outgoing-payment/'>Create an Outgoing Payment</LinkOut>
- <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> <LinkOut href='https://openpayments.dev/apis/auth-server/operations/post-token/'>Rotate an Access Token</LinkOut>

## Steps

### 1. Get wallet address information

> When the sender initiates a subscription, your platform needs to get wallet address information for both the sender and the recipient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the customer signs up for a subscription, your platform needs to get wallet address information for both the customer and the service provider.
```

Reviewer: As an example. This also keeps you from needing to put "(service provider)" in parens like you have in the next paragraph.

  <TabItem label='TypeScript/JavaScript' icon='seti:javascript'>
  ```ts wrap
  const serviceProviderIncomingPayment = await client.incomingPayment.create(
    {
      url: serviceProviderWalletAddress.resourceServer,
      accessToken: serviceProviderIncomingPaymentGrant.access_token.value
    },
    {
      walletAddress: serviceProviderWalletAddress.id,
      incomingAmount: {
        value: '1500',
        assetCode: 'USD',
        assetScale: 2
      },
    },
  )
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details>
<summary>Example response</summary>
The following shows an example response from your company's wallet provider.

```json wrap
{
  "id": "https://happylifebank.example.com/incoming-payments/{...}",
  "walletAddress": "https://happylifebank.example.com/service-provider",
  "incomingAmount": {
    "value": "1500",
    "assetCode": "USD",
    "assetScale": 2
  },
  "receivedAmount": {
    "value": "0",
    "assetCode": "USD",
    "assetScale": 2
  },
  "completed": false,
  "createdAt": "2025-10-14T00:00:50.52Z",
  "methods": [
    {
      "type": "ilp",
      "ilpAddress": "...",
      "sharedSecret": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

</details>

### 4. Request a quote grant

> Use the customer's `authServer` details, received in Step 1, to call the <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> [Grant Request API](/apis/auth-server/operations/post-request).

Author: Hopefully, swapping company references with service provider will reduce the confusion on this line.

Include the `interact_ref` returned in the redirect URI's query parameters.

<Tabs syncKey="lang">
  <TabItem label='TypeScript/JavaScript' icon='seti:javascript'>
    ```ts wrap
    const customerOutgoingPaymentGrant = await client.grant.continue(
      {
        url: customerOutgoingPaymentGrant.continue.uri,
        accessToken: customerOutgoingPaymentGrant.continue.access_token.value
      },
      {
        interact_ref: interactRef
      }
    )
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details>
  <summary>Example response</summary>
The following shows an example response from the customer's wallet provider.

```json wrap
{
  "access_token": {
    "value": "...", // final access token required before creating outgoing payments
    "manage": "https://auth.cloudninebank.example.com/token/{...}", // management uri for access token
    "access": [
      {
        "type": "outgoing-payment",
        "actions": ["create", "read"],
        "identifier": "https://cloudninebank.example.com/customer",
        "limits": {
          "debitAmount": {
            "assetCode": "USD",
            "assetScale": 2,
            "value": "1500"
          },

>           "interval": "R12/2025-10-14T00:00:00Z/P1M"

Reviewer: Update interval here, too

<Tabs syncKey="lang">
<TabItem label='TypeScript/JavaScript' icon='seti:javascript'>
  ```ts wrap
  const customerOutgoingPayment = await client.outgoingPayment.create(
    {
      url: customerWalletAddress.resourceServer,
      accessToken: customerOutgoingPaymentGrant.access_token.value
    },
    {
      walletAddress: customerWalletAddress.id,
      quoteId: customerQuote.id
    }
  )
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details>
<summary>Example response</summary>
The following shows an example response from the customer's wallet provider.

```json wrap
{
  "id": "https://cloudninebank.example.com/outgoing-payments/{...}", // url identifying the outgoing payment
  "walletAddress": "https://cloudninebank.example.com/customer",
  "receiver": "https://happylifebank.example.com/incoming-payments/{...}", // url of the incoming payment being paid
  "debitAmount": {
    "value": "1500",
    "assetCode": "USD",
    "assetScale": 2
  },
  "receiveAmount": {
    "value": "1500",
    "assetCode": "USD",
    "assetScale": 2
  },
  "sentAmount": {
    "value": "0",
    "assetCode": "USD",
    "assetScale": 2
  },
  "createdAt": "2025-10-14T00:00:54.52Z"
}
```

</details>

> The first of the twelve recurring subscription payments is now set up. At the next interval (one month from now), repeat Steps 3, 5, and 10. You don't need to request new outgoing or incoming payment grants because the original grants are still valid for the remaining billing periods.

Reviewer: Do you need/not need a new quote grant? If yes, add that step to the list. If no, then maybe update the paragraph to "You don't need to request new grants because...".

:::note[Access token expiry]

> If a particular grant's access token has expired, call the <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> [Rotate Access Token API](/apis/auth-server/operations/post-token), then use the new token in the appropriate incoming or outgoing payment request.

Reviewer: Also update this based on whatever is true above ("...then use the new token in the appropriate request")

}
```
The following example shows a response from the service provider's wallet provider.
```json wrap
{
  "id": "https://happylifebank.example.com/service-provider",
  "assetCode": "USD",
  "assetScale": 2,
  "authServer": "https://auth.happylifebank.example.com/",
  "resourceServer": "https://happylifebank.example.com/op"
}
```
</details>

### 2. Request an incoming payment grant

Use the service provider's `authServer` details, received in the previous step, to call the <Badge text="POST" variant="success" /> [Grant Request API](/apis/auth-server/operations/post-request).

This call obtains an access token that allows you to request that an incoming payment resource be created on the service provider's wallet account.

<Tabs syncKey="lang">
<TabItem label='TypeScript/JavaScript' icon='seti:javascript'>
  ```ts wrap
  const serviceProviderIncomingPaymentGrant = await client.grant.request(
    {
      url: serviceProviderWalletAddress.authServer
    },
    {
      access_token: {
        access: [
          {
            type: "incoming-payment",
            actions: ["create"],
          },
        ],
      },
    },
  );

> ````

Reviewer: I don't know what causes this. Maybe Prettier?

This call requests that a quote resource be created on the customer's wallet account. The request must contain the `receiver`, which is the service provider's incoming payment `id`, along with the `incomingAmount`, which is the exact amount the service provider wants to receive.

The `incomingAmount` specifies that the service provider will receive exactly \$15 USD.

<Tabs syncKey="lang">
<TabItem label='TypeScript/JavaScript' icon='seti:javascript'>
  ```ts wrap
  const customerQuote = await client.quote.create(
    {
      url: customerWalletAddress.resourceServer,
      accessToken: customerQuoteGrant.access_token.value
    },
    {
      method: 'ilp',
      walletAddress: customerWalletAddress.id,
      receiver: serviceProviderIncomingPayment.id,
      incomingAmount: {
        value: '1500',
        assetCode: 'USD',
        assetScale: 2
      }
    }
  )
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The response returns a `receiveAmount`, a `debitAmount`, and other required information.

- `debitAmount` - The amount the customer must pay.

> - `receiveAmount` - The amount the service provider will receive.

Reviewer: In the OTP guide for this property, the description is "The `incomingAmount` value from the incoming payment resource." I know that's not applicable here, because then the value would be `18000`. Can you check if the description you have is OK, or if it should say something like "The `incomingAmount` value from the quote request."

  )
  ```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details>
  <summary>Example response</summary>
The following shows an example response from the customer's wallet provider.

```json wrap
{
  "interact": {
    "redirect": "https://auth.cloudninebank.example.com/{...}", // uri to redirect the customer to, to begin interaction
    "finish": "..." // unique key to secure the callback
  },
  "continue": {
    "access_token": {
      "value": "..." // access token for continuing the outgoing payment grant request
    },
    "uri": "https://auth.cloudninebank.example.com/continue/{...}", // uri for continuing the outgoing payment grant request
    "wait": 30
  }
}
```

</details>

#### About the interval

The interval used in this guide is `R12/2025-10-14T00:03:00Z/P1M`. Remember that the customer wants to pay \$15 USD a month for 12 months. The interval breaks down like this:

- `R12/` is the number of repetitions - twelve
- `2025-10-14` is the start date of the repeating interval - 14 October 2025
- `T00:03:00Z/` is the start time of the repeating interval - 12:03 AM UTC
- `P1M` is the period between each interval - one month. Used with `R12`, you have a grant that's valid once a month for 12 months.

> Altogether, this grant will allow the customer to pay \$15 USD twelve times.

Author: I'll keep this open in case we need to revisit it based on SME feedback.
